translate-global_tensor_from_CN_to_EN (#501)
Oneflow-Inc/oneflow-documentation: en/docs/cookies/global_tensor.md

Here, the multiplied result of `flow.sbp.split(0)` and `flow.sbp.broadcast` will be inferred as `flow.sbp.split(0)`. `x` is a data slice in each rank, `w` complete data, and `y` a data slice. Anyone familiar with common parallel execution approaches will find that a forward computation with data parallelism is conducted here. `x` is a data slice, and `w` the complete parameters.

## Conclusion

This article has discussed:

- Global View offers the SPSD programming view;
- Global Tensor is visible on all processes when being executed;
- Global Tensor and Local Tensor are mutually convertible;
- Global Tensor supports converting the global data distribution type to implement distributed communication;
- OneFlow operators are polymorphic enough to enable the execution of the Global Tensor;

So, this article will come to a close, and it fisrtly introduces how to create a Global Tensor and finally explains the detailed steps for data parallelism computation that is based on a Global Tensor.

More about parallelism ways and SBP's inference logic will be discussed in our later articles. 

> ## 扩展阅读

Reviewer: 这个地方还没处理

## Further Reading

> ### OneFlow 多机多卡启动 和 依赖的环境变量

Reviewer: 同上，应该删除

> ### OneFlow’s multi-machine multi-GPU launching and its required environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### OneFlow's multi-machine multi-GPU launching and its required environment variables
```

中文标点

当前常用的 Tensor，只在单个进程内可见，存在于一个设备上，OneFlow 中把这种 Tensor 叫做 Local Tensor。Local 是相对 Global 而言的，所以 Local Tensor 可以认为是 Local (on one process) Tensor。

At present, the commonly-used tensor is only visible on one process and also exists on a single device. OneFlow calls it the local tensor, which means it’s a tensor that can be seen on only one process.

OneFlow 的算子大部分兼容 Local Tensor 和 Global Tensor 的执行。Local Tensor 可以便捷地转化为 Global Tensor。如此，单机单卡执行的代码可以平滑地转换成多机多卡执行的代码。

Most of OneFlow’s operators are compatible with the execution of local tensors and global tensors. It’s convenient to convert the local tensor to the global tensor, so the codes originally executed on single-device single-GPU can be smoothly converted to ones that can be executed on multi-device multi-GPU.

使用 Global Tensor，可以非常便捷地进行多机多卡的模型开发，相比使用原始通信算子，可以成倍提高并行执行模型的开发效率。

Global tensor allows users to easily develop models on multi-device multi-GPU. Compared to utilizing the original communication operators, the efficiency of developing parallelly executed models will be doubled.

## 创建 Global Tensor

> ## Creating global tensor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Creating Global Tensor
```
下文中的标题也需要修改下

详情参考 [oneflow.sbp.sbp](https://oneflow.readthedocs.io/en/master/tensor_attributes.html?highlight=placement#oneflow.sbp.sbp)。

For more details, please refer to [oneflow.sbp.sbp](https://oneflow.readthedocs.io/en/master/tensor_attributes.html?highlight=placement#oneflow.sbp.sbp).

数据重分布（Re-distribution)是并行计算中经常要处理的，即变换数据分布，比如把分片数据聚合到一起。在 MPI 编程范式（SPMD）下, 数据重分布需要写显式的通信操作，如 AllReduce、AllGather、ReduceScatter。在 OneFlow 的 Global View 编程范式（SPSD) 下，数据重分布可以通过 Global Tensor 的全局数据分布类型转换完成。

Data re-distribution is commonly seen in parallel computing, i.e., changing the distributed way of data, such as gathering all data slices. In the MPI programming paradigm (SPMD), data re-distribution requires writing explicit communication operations like AllReduce, AllGather, and ReduceScatter. But in OneFlow’s global view programming paradigm (SPSD), data re-distribution is available by utilizing Global Tensor’s global data distribution type conversion.

全局数据分布类型的转换类似常规编程语言中的（显式）类型转换。类型转换时，只需指定要变换到的类型，里面隐含的操作会被系统自动完成。比如 double 类型到 int 类型的转换，去掉小数点部分的操作就是系统自动完成的。

> The conversion of the global data distribution type is similar to (explicit) type conversion in the general programming language. Users only need to specify the targeted type when they convert types, and some implicit operations can be executed automatically. For example, when converting the type from double to int, the system will remove the decimal point automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The conversion of the global data distribution type is similar to (explicit) type conversion in general programming languages. Users only need to specify the targeted type when they convert types, and some implicit operations can be executed automatically. For example, when converting the type from double to int, the system will remove the decimal point automatically.
```

同样，只需指定 Global Tensor 要转换的新全局数据分布类型，里面隐含的通信操作会被 OneFlow 自动完成。全局数据分布类型转换的接口是 [Tensor.to_global](https://oneflow.readthedocs.io/en/master/tensor.html#oneflow.Tensor.to_global)，`to_global` 有 `placement` 和 `sbp` 两个参数，这两个参数即期望转换成的新全局数据分布类型。 

Similarly, it’s only required to specify the new global data distribution type that the global tensor will be converted into, and OneFlow will complete implicit communication operations automatically. And the interface to convert the global data distribution type is [Tensor.to_global](https://oneflow.readthedocs.io/en/master/tensor.html#oneflow.Tensor.to_global). The `to_global` method contains two parameters- `placement` and `sbp`, which decide the newly-converted global data distribution type.

全局数据分布类型转换中隐含的主要操作是通信的推理和执行，背后的实现机制是 OneFlow 的 [Boxing](https://docs.oneflow.org/master/parallelism/03_consistent_tensor#boxing-sbp)，一种自动做数据 Re-distribution 的机制。

> The main implicit operations in converting the global data distribution type are to infer and execute the communications, and these operations are realized by OneFlow’s [Boxing](https://docs.oneflow.org/master/parallelism/03_consistent_tensor#boxing-sbp), which is a mechanism to re-distribute data automatically.

Reviewer 2: 链接到英文版
```suggestion
The main implicit operations in converting the global data distribution type are to infer and execute the communications, and these operations are realized by OneFlow’s [Boxing](https://docs.oneflow.org/en/master/parallelism/03_consistent_tensor.html#boxingautomatic-conversion-of-sbp), which is a mechanism to re-distribute data automatically.
```

Global tensor’s type conversion can infer and execute the communication operations automatically. So, algorithm developers can concentrate on **thinking in data distribution** rather than **thinking in data communication operation**, and what they imagine is what they obtain, which helps them to develop distributed programs more efficiently.

这里补充介绍一下 Global Tensor 的 `numpy()` 方法。对于任意的 Global Tensor 如 `x_global`，`x_global.numpy()` 等价于 `x_global.to_global(spb=flow.sbp.broadcast).to_local().numpy()`，即内部隐含了一次将原 Global Tensor 转成 SBP 为 flow.sbp.broadcast() 的 Global Tensor，然后进行一次 to_local 操作，最后对这个 Local Tensor 调用 `numpy()` 方法。所以 `x_global.numpy()` 得到的是一个完整的数据。

Let’s add by introducing how to apply `numpy()` to the global tensor. For random global tensor, such as `x_global`, `x_global.numpy()` is equivalent to `x_global.to_global(spb=flow.sbp.broadcast).to_local().numpy()`, which means `x_global.numpy()` will firstly convert the original global tensor to one, which SBP is flow.sbp.broadcast(), then conduct a `to_local ` operation and finally invoke `numpy()` for the local tensor. Therefore, the `x_global.numpy()` method can obtain complete data.

## Global Tensor 参与计算

> ## Global tensor participating in computation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Global Tensor Participating in Computation
```

这一节介绍 Global Tensor 如何参与实际计算。以 Global Tensor 参与矩阵乘法计算为例，构造如下程序：

This section introduces how the global tensor participates in practical computation. Take the global tensor participating in matrix multiplication computation for example, please firstly create the following program:

```python
import oneflow as flow
placement = flow.placement(type="cuda", ranks=[0, 1])
x = flow.randn(4, 5, placement=placement, sbp=flow.sbp.split(dim=0))
w = flow.randn(5, 8, placement=placement, sbp=flow.sbp.broadcast)
y = flow.matmul(x, w)
print(y.is_global)  # True
print(y.shape)  # (4, 8)
print(y.sbp)  # (flow.sbp.split(dim=0))
print(y.to_local().numpy())
```

以上程序创建了两个 Global Tensor，分别是 `x` 和 `w`，它们参与 `oneflow.matmul` 计算得到 `y`。

In the program above, we have created 2 global tensors-`x` and `w`, and they participate in `oneflow.matmul` computation and generate `y`. 

OneFlow 中的大部分算子都支持计算 Global Tensor。`flow.matmul` 执行 Global Tensor时，在接口上并无特殊之处。可以认为 OneFlow 中的算子都是多态的。即根据输入，决定自己的行为：

> Most of OneFlow’s operators support computing the global tensor. When `flow.matmul` executes the global tensor, there is nothing special about its interface. Arguably, most of OneFlow’s operators are dynamic, so they can decide how to compute according to the input:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of OneFlow’s operators support computing the global tensor. When `flow.matmul` executes the global tensor, there is nothing special about its interface. Arguably, most of OneFlow’s operators are polymorphic, so they can decide how to compute according to the input:
```

- 如果算子的输入是 Local Tensor，那么算子会按照普通的单机单设备执行模式进行计算；
- 如果算子的输入是 Global Tensor，那么算子会采用 Global View（多机多设备）模式进行计算；

- If the input of the operator is a local tensor, the operator will compute the tensor in normal single-device single-GPU execution mode.
- If the input of the operator is a global tensor, the operator will compute the tensor in global view (multi-device multi-GPU) mode.

当用户需要将单卡代码改为分布式代码时，算子支持多态执行为用户提供了极大的便利：只需要把输入的 (Local) Tensor 转换成 Global Tensor 。

> The operators supporting polymorphic execution is very convenient for users to change the single-GPU code into distributed code: they only need to convert the (local) tensor they input to a global tensor.

Reviewer 2: 主语是 "The operators" 吧？
```suggestion
The operators supporting polymorphic execution are very convenient for users to change the single-GPU code into distributed code: they only need to convert the (Local) Tensor they accept to a Global Tensor.
```

Just like single-device execution requires the data to be input into the same device, in the program above, the premise of the operator being executed successfully is that `x` and `w` have the same placement.

程序中矩阵相乘的结果 `y` 同样是一个 Global Tensor 。`flow.matmul` 对输入 `x` 和 `w` 做计算时，会自动进行输出数据的 placement 和 SBP 的推理，规则如下：

The result of matrix multiplication-`y` is also a global tensor. When `flow.matmul` computes `x` and `w`, it will automatically infer the placement and SBP of the output data. The following are the principles: 

- Placement: 输出和输入的 placement 相同；
- SBP: 输出的 SBP 的推理规则，因算子类型而异，这个推理规则是 OneFlow 内置的，详情可见: [SBP Signature](../parallelism/02_sbp.md#sbp-signature)

- Placement: The input data and the output data have the same placement;
- SBP: The inference principle of the output data's SBP is decided by the operator type, and this principle is built into OneFlow. For more details, please refer to [SBP Signature](../parallelism/02_sbp.md#sbp-signature).

此处，`flow.sbp.split(0)` 和 `flow.sbp.broadcast` 相乘的输出数据会被推理成 `flow.sbp.split(0)`。`x` 在每个 rank 上是一个分片数据，`w` 是一个完整的数据，二者矩阵乘法得到的 `y` 是一个分片的数据。看到这里，了解常见并行执行方式的朋友可以发现：这里实现了一个数据并行的前向计算，`x` 是切片的数据，`w` 是完整的参数。

> Here, the multiplied result of `flow.sbp.split(0)` and `flow.sbp.broadcast` will be referred as `flow.sbp.split(0)`. `x` is a data slice in each rank, `w` is complete data, and `y` is a data slice. Anyone familiar with common parallel execution approaches will find that a forward computation with data parallelism is conducted here. `x` is a data slice, and `w` is complete data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, the multiplied result of `flow.sbp.split(0)` and `flow.sbp.broadcast` will be referred as `flow.sbp.split(0)`. `x` is a data slice in each rank, `w` is complete data, and `y` is a data slice. Anyone familiar with common parallel execution approaches will find that a forward computation with data parallelism is conducted here. `x` is a data slice, and `w` the complete parameters.
```
这里指的是 "w" 相当于数据并行策略下模型参数

OneFlow 的 Global Tensor 执行采用的是 **多客户端模式 (Multi-Client)**，每个设备对应一个进程。`n 机 m 卡` 的环境，就对应 `n * m` 个进程。每个进程都有一个进程 rank 编号，Global Tensor 中的 placement 参数中的 ranks 对应的就是这个 rank 编号。

OneFlow’s global tensors are executed under ** Multi-Client mode**, which means each device corresponds to one process. For example, `n Machine m GPU` has `n * m` processes. Besides, each process has its own rank ID, which corresponds to the ranks of the global tensor's placement parameter.

以 `2 机 2 卡` 为例， 0 号机器中两张卡分别对应编号 0 和 1，第 1 号机器中两张卡分别对应编号 2 和 3。此时 `flow.placement(type="cuda", ranks=[2])` 可以唯一标识第 1 号机器中的第 0 卡。

Taking `2 Machines 2 GPUs` for example, Machine 0 corresponds to GPU 0 and GPU 1, and Machine 1 corresponds to GPU 2 and GPU 3. So, `flow.placement(type="cuda", ranks=[2])` can only identify the GPU 0 on Machine 1.

一般地，对于 `n 机 m 卡` 的环境，`flow.placement(type="cuda", ranks=[k])` 唯一标识第 `k / n` 号机器的第 `k % m` 张卡。

Generally, in the `n Machine m GPU` environment, `flow.placement(type="cuda", ranks=[k])` only identifies the GPU `k % m` on Machine `k / n`.

因为采用多客户端模式，所以需要对应每个设备都启动一个进程。在 OneFlow 中，所有进程都只需要启动相同的脚本程序。不同进程之间通过不同的环境变量来区分进程编号和建立通信连接。

> Because the tensor adopts the Multi-Client mode, we need to launch different processes corresponding to each device. In OneFlow, all processes need to launch the same scripts, and different processes distinguish process ID and establish communications according to different environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the Multi-Client mode is adopted , we need to launch different processes corresponding to each device. In OneFlow, all processes need to launch the same scripts, and different processes distinguish process ID and establish communications according to different environment variables.
```

环境变量说明：

Notes of environment variables:

- `MASTER_ADDR`：多机训练的第 0 号机器的 IP；
- `MASTER_PORT`：多机训练的第 0 号机器的监听端口，不与已经占用的端口冲突即可；
- `WORLD_SIZE`：整个集群中计算设备的数目，因为目前还不支持各个机器上显卡数目不一致，因此 `WORLD_SIZE` 的数目实际上是 $机器数目 \times 每台机器上的显卡数目$。[创建 Global Tensor](#global-tensor_2) 中的示例是单机 2 卡的情况，因此 `WORLD_SIZE=2`；
- `RANK`：集群内所有机器下的进程编号；
- `LOCAL_RANK`：单个机器内的进程编号；

> - `MASTER_ADDR`：the IP of Machine 0 that is trained on multiple machines;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `MASTER_ADDR`：the IP of Machine 0 under multiple-machine training;
```

> - `MASTER_PORT`：the monitor port of Machine 0 that is trained on multiple machines, and this port shouldn’t conflict with the occupied ports;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `MASTER_PORT`：the listening port of Machine 0 under multiple-machine training, and this port shouldn’t conflict with the occupied ports;
```

> - `WORLD_SIZE`: the number of computing device in the whole cluster. Because it’s still not feasible to configure different number of GPUs on each device, the `WORLD_SIZE` equals the machine numbers multiplies the GPU numbers on each machine. In the previous case, we [create the global tensor](#global-tensor_2) in single machine 2 GPUs environment, so the `WORLD_SIZE=2`;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `WORLD_SIZE`: the number of computing devices in the whole cluster. Because it’s still not feasible to configure different number of GPUs on each device, the `WORLD_SIZE` equals the machine numbers multiplies the GPU numbers on each machine. In the previous case, we [create the global tensor](#global-tensor_2) in single machine 2 GPUs environment, so the `WORLD_SIZE=2`;
```

- For single machine training, including single-machine single-GPU and single-machine multi-GPU, `RANK` equals to `LOCAL_RANK`;
- For multi-machine training, the upper limit to `LOCAL_RANK` for each device is the number of computing devices on each machine; the upper limit to `RANK` is the sum of computing devices on all machines, and all devices are numbered from 0. (Because these computing devices are numbered from 0, the upper limit doesn’t exist.)

以 `2 机 2 卡` 为例，每张显卡的 `LOCAL_RANK` 与 `RANK` 对应情况如下：

Take `2 Machines 2 GPUs` for example, the corresponding relationship between `LOCAL_RANK` and `RANK` for each GPU is listed as follows:

|                      | RANK | LOCAL_RANK |
| -------------------- | ---- | ---------- |
| 机器 0 的第 0 张显卡 | 0    | 0          |
| 机器 0 的第 1 张显卡 | 1    | 1          |
| 机器 1 的第 0 张显卡 | 2    | 0          |
| 机器 1 的第 1 张显卡 | 3    | 1          |

|               | RANK | LOCAL_RANK |
| ------------- | ---- | ---------- |
| GPU 0 on Machine 0 | 0    | 0          |
| GPU 0 on Machine 1 | 1    | 1          |
| GPU 1 on Machine 0 | 2    | 0          |
| GPU 1 on Machine 1 | 3    | 1          |

使用环境变量启动虽然繁琐，但是适用性广，可以采用任意的方式来启动进程。

> Although it is complicated to utilize environment variables launching, this approach is widely applicable because users can adopt random ways to launch the process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although it is complicated to utilize environment variables launching, this approach is widely applicable because users can adopt random ways to launch the processes.
```
